---
title: Resume
permalink: /resume/
layout: page
---

**François Nicholas**

**Technologist, Senior Engineering Manager**

**Aspiring Venture Capitalist**

San Francisco Bay Area

[www.linkedin.com/in/francoisnicholas](http://www.linkedin.com/in/francoisnicholas)

[www.francoisnicholas.com](http://www.francoisnicholas.com)

[francis.nicholas@gmail.com](mailto:francis.nicholas@gmail.com)

240.381.1020

 

**Overview**
** **

François joins PlayStation™ in 2020 as a Senior Engineering Manager,
where he leads & manages the Data Platform Reliability Engineering Teams
―Cloud Data & Model Operations Engineering Teams within the Cloud
Engineering & Operations organization.\
 \
 Before his stewardship at PlayStation, he worked for Ditto, where he
led & managed multiple engineering teams tasked with revolutionizing how
people shop for glasses by leveraging computer vision & machine
learning, virtual try-on technology, facial analysis, & frame
recommendation engine.\
 \
 Prior to that, he worked for Amazon Web Services as a Cloud
Infrastructure Architect. In his time there, he was tasked with working
with small & medium-sized businesses to craft scalable, flexible, &
resilient architectures that address their business problems &
accelerate the adoption of new cloud services. He was also part of the
official launch team responsible for the AWS Managed Services that went
public in 2016.\
 \
 François has held a variety of technical roles as an Individual
Contributor, Team Lead, Principal Engineer, & Manager in sectors
including but not limited to e-commerce, e-payment, financial
technology, scientific marketing, e-travel, computer vision, augmented
reality, cloud computing, & gaming.\
 \
 The aspect of work he is most enthusiastic about is learning & working
side by side with people from all walks of life that come up with unique
& valuable visions, & build them out beautifully, typically over the
doubts & opposition of others.\
 \
 His philosophy, when it comes to Management, is, "People first,
Technology second." He believes that "leadership is not about titles,
positions, or flowcharts. It is about one life influencing another." He
is passionate about Technology, Engineering Management, extreme
ownership, execution, leading, & building teams while continuing to
demonstrate his comprehensive systems & applications engineering
experience focusing on scalability, reliability, & high availability by
leveraging the power of the public cloud & open-source technology.\
 \
 He is a forthright individual who doesn't deal well with bullshit,
incompetence, cronyism, & nepotism. In his free time, he enjoys many
activities, including playing soccer, reading, hiking, travelling,
researching Jazz artists & listening to their collection of work, &
spending quality time with underrepresented kids - teaching them about
mathematics & science. François enjoys competitive motorsports, rockets,
non-fiction, live concerts, & the arts.\
 \
 He is an aspiring Venture Capitalist & also interested in joining a
board. 

 

**Professional Experience**

** **

**PlayStation**™**, San Francisco Bay Area. 2020 - Present**

 

Managing the Data Platform Reliability Engineering Teams within the
Cloud Engineering & Operations organization. Also, part of the A-Team
that launched & operationally managed all the support aspects of
PlayStation® 5 Wave I & II public release in November 2020.

** **

**Duties & Responsibilities –**

** **

●        Managing two Engineering Managers including their respective
teams of multiple engineers of all levels, coaching them to peak
performance, planning & supporting their career development, &
consistently providing thoughtful & impactful leadership at the
managerial & technical level.

●        Playing a key role in guiding product development, leading
multiple of engineering teams that work closely with product, design, &
other cross functional teams.

●        Driving engineering excellence through continuous improvement,
growing & empowering technical leadership amongst the teams.

●        Influencing the team, peers & upper management by leveraging
effective communication & collaborative techniques. Focusing on building
& maintaining a culture of collaboration within the teams.

●        Working with Principal Engineers, Architects, Program Managers,
Product Managers, & other Engineering Managers, Directors, & Vice
Presidents to deliver features and projects on an agile sprint cadence.

●        Serving as the scrum master for the team’s deliverables &
taking ownership from technical designs & reviews through development &
production support.

●        Maintaining high standards for operational excellence &
engineering rigor through unit tests & performance tests.

●        Reviewing technical implementation plans, & providing technical
guidance to engineers.

●        Presenting on plans, progress & outcomes at leadership reviews
& company meetings.

 

**Tools:** Amazon Web Services, Databricks, Sledon, Aerospike,
Cassandra, Kubeflow Pipeline, Splunk, Imply, Druid, and many more.

 

** **

**DITTO, San Francisco Bay Area.  2019 –****2020**

**Software Engineering Manager**

 

Managed multiple engineering teams at DITTO where we are revolutionizing
how people shop for glasses. Computer vision & machine learning powers
our industry-leading augmented reality virtual try-on, facial analysis,
& frame recommendation engine. Our technology is licensed by eyewear
retailers who embed our technology into their in-store & online
experiences to provide their customers with an exciting & satisfying
shopping experience.

 

**Duties & Responsibilities –**

●        Managed the Backend, Mobile & Frontend, & Site Reliability
Engineering teams at DITTO, & served as an engineering leader &
technical expert.

●        Communicated & collaborated with other engineering managers as
well as members of product management & operations.

●         Coordinated the prompt resolution of client issues &
questions.

●        Assisted in planning, maintenance, & execution of Agile
processes.

●        Managed the release process & documentation.

●        Confirmed the accuracy of the work performed & methods used by
the Engineering teams.

●        Created plans for engineering execution & refined processes &
procedures.

●        Determined any staffing & training needs required.

●        Hired, trained, & supervised engineering staff members.

●        Prepared & deliver engineering-related presentations within
DITTO.

** **

**Tools: Amazon Web Services**

 

**AMAZON WEB SERVICES, San Francisco Bay Area. 2017 – 2019**

**Cloud Infrastructure Architect**

Working with small & medium-size businesses to craft scalable, flexible,
& resilient architectures that address their business problems &
accelerate the adoption of new cloud services.

**Duties & Responsibilities –**

●        Served as a team lead & technical liaison between customers,
service engineering teams & support to ensuring success in building &
migrating applications, software, & services on the Amazon Web Services
platform.

●        Partnered with the sales team, formulate & execute a sales
strategy to exceed revenue objectives through the adoption of Amazon Web
Services.

●        Educated customers of all sizes on the value proposition of
Amazon Web Services, & participate in deep architectural discussions to
ensure solutions are designed for successful deployment in the cloud.

●        Conducted one-to-few & one-to-many training sessions to
transfer knowledge to customers considering or already using Amazon Web
Services.

●        Captured & shared best-practice knowledge within the Amazon Web
Services Solutions Architect Community.

●        Contributed to Amazon Web Services customer-facing publications
such as white papers, blogs, & articles.

●        Built deep relationships with senior technical individuals
within customers to enable them to be cloud advocates.

** **

**Tools: Amazon Web Services**

 

**AMAZON WEB SERVICES, Greater Seattle Area. 2016 – 2019**

**Senior DevOps Engineer**

Part of the A-Team that launched & operationally managed the Managed
Services for the Enterprise platform that provides the ongoing
management of customer's Amazon Web Services infrastructure by
automating activities such as change requests, monitoring, patch
management, security, & backup services; & also provide full-lifecycle
services to provision, run, & support customers’ infrastructure so they
can focus primarily on their applications.

**Duties & Responsibilities -**

●        Troubleshot, reproduced & solved challenging operational issues
in a complex enterprise environment running fleets of server instances
interacting with multiple services across several AWS regions.

●        Worked directly with technical teams from AWS enterprise
customers & partners to provide unique solutions to customers'
individual needs for their application deployment.

●        Built & maintained CloudFormation templates, Chef Cookbooks,
Ansible Playbooks, & scripts to automate & deploy AWS resources &
configuration changes.

●        Collaborated & helped built utilities & tools for internal use
that enable fellow Engineers to operate safely at high speed & wide
scale.

●        Leveraged my day-to-day experiences to provide the voice of the
customer to internal AWS teams.

●        Drove customer communication during critical events.

●        Wrote tutorials, how-to videos, & other technical articles for
the AWS customer community.

●        Worked on critical, highly complex customer problems that span
multiple AWS services.

** **

**Tools: Amazon Web Services**

 

**EXPEDIA, Greater Seattle Area. 201****3 – 2016**

**Senior Applications Engineer**

Tasked with migrating fleet of business mission critical legacy lodging,
packages, & meta-services applications to a more reliable, scalable, &
highly available elastic infrastructure by leveraging variety of
open-source technologies including but not limited to the Linux
Operating System, JAVA, BASH, Ruby, Pivotal GemFire, Service Discovery
with Consul, Synapse, & Nerve; & the CHEF configuration management tool.

**Duties & Responsibilities -**

●        Developed & demonstrated detailed, proactive operations
ownership for supported systems, including configurations, monitoring &
documentation.

●        Worked closely with Information Technology & Product
Development counterparts on requirements, solution design, issue
identification / resolution, problem solving & planning related to
production issues & software releases.

●        Identified security & performance issues at multiple layers of
deployment, from hardware, operating environment, network & application.

●        Provided feedback & guidance to product development teams on
adherence to policies, standards, & operational best practices.

●        Evaluated performance trends & expected changes in demand &
capacity.

●        Established key monitors to ensure performance SLAs are met by
analyzing, interpreting & summarizing performance data & metrics.

●        Provided technical expertise in identifying issues that impact
service delivery.

●        Proactively identify top performance bottlenecks & work with
cross functional teams to bring rapid, effective resolution.

●        Scheduled, planned, & implemented new systems.

●        Developed & maintained internal documentation.

●        Recommended & maintained technology related policies &
procedures.

** **

**Tools:**CentOS, Chef, ServiceNow, NetScalar, Icinga, HipChat, Git,
Perforce, Cisco UCS Blade Servers, Ruby, Java, Bash, Confluence, NetApp,
HaProxy, Graphite, Grafana, Nagios.

** **

**SENTRANA, Washington D.C Metro Area. 2011 – 2013**

**Engineering Team Lead**

Managed & administered the operational aspects of Sentrana’s data
environments such as the configuration of the Linux application
infrastructure, supporting other client-facing staging & production
systems, daily database activities, all datacenter operations,
troubleshooting & resolving tier-3 issues.

**Duties & Responsibilities –**

●        Installed & configured Linux servers in production, & staging
environments.

●        Worked with vendor's customer support to resolve issues.

●        Worked with software tools to install & scale the Linux
distributed infrastructure.

●        Assisted with performance tuning for both staging & production
environments.

●        Built tools for automating various system administration tasks
including server & OS provisioning.

●        Evaluated new technologies & hardware platforms; integrate
them.

●        Optimized hardware use for various applications, including
in-house IO intensive applications & distributed databases requiring
custom performance tuning.

●        Provided documentation of issues & supported systems.

●        Participated in a 24x7 paid on-call rota.

 

**Tools:**CentOS, RHEL, OpenNebula, CFengine, PostgreSQL, MySQL, NetApp,
Bash, Perl, memcacheD, Zeus Traffic Manager, iptables, Apache, GIT,
Confluence, Jira, Nessus, OpsView, Munin, NetMon, Site24X7

 

 

**FIRST AMERICAN, Washington D.C Metro Area. 2008 – 2011**

**Senior Analyst**

Administered complex systems on First American’s Linux transaction
processing platform including capture & settlement operations,
connectivity to all financial processors; & provided support to all
clients including issue identification & resolution, & deploying web
applications & products for First American’s clients.

**Duties & Responsibilities –**

●        Performed Linux systems & database systems administration.

●        Performed scheduled & non-scheduled production application
deployments in a timely manner consistent with SLA.

●        Performed patch management, security scanning & remediation.

●        Provided tier 3 support, guidance, & direction to clients
having difficulties obtaining the desired service.

●        Performed troubleshooting steps to further diagnose & resolve
systems & applications issues escalated by the Helpdesk team.

●        Assisted the VP of Technical Operations in achieving annual
Payment Card Industry (PCI) & SAS-70 audit compliance.

●        Provided QA implementation support activities for Client
Services Team.

●        Performed technical research to solve complex technical
challenges with little initial information or direction.

●        Participated in a 24x7 paid on-call rota.

 

**Tools:**CentOS, RHEL, Nessus, Pingdom, Cleartrust, VMware, MySQL,
Perl, Bash, Windows Server OS, Oracle webLogic, Active Directory,
Nagios, Confluence, Jira, Apache, Java, Snort, NetApp

** **

**Education**

Morgan State University.

●        Major in Computer Science.

Saint Savior High School.

●        High School Diploma.

 

**Technical Certifications**

Scrum Alliance Certified ScrumMaster.

Amazon Web Services

●   Certified Solutions Architect-Professional.

●   Certified Developer – Professional.

●   Certified SysOps Administrator-Associate.

●   Certified Solutions Architect-Associate.

●   Certified Developer-Associate.

RedHat Certified Linux Engineer.

LPI Certified Linux Administrator.

Oracle Certified Linux Administrator.

Novell Certified Linux Administrator.

**Professional Courses**

●        Amazon Web Services Business Essentials.

●        Amazon Web Services Cloud Adoption Framework.

●        Amazon Web Services Cloud Practitioner Essentials.

●        Amazon Web Services GDPR & AWS Shared Responsibility Model.

●        Amazon Web Services Technical Essentials.

●        Amazon Web Services Well-Architected Framework.

●        Advanced Architecting on Amazon Web Services.

●        Architecting on Amazon Web Services.

●        Big Data on Amazon Web Services.

●        Data Warehousing on Amazon Web Services.

●        DevOps Engineering on Amazon Web Services.

●        Developing on Amazon Web Services.

●        Migrating to Amazon Web Services.

●        Security Operations on Amazon Web Services.

●        Systems Operations on Amazon Web Services.
